.TH PMAPP 1 "PGP Moose"
.\"@(#)pmapp.1	1.4 (PGPMoose) 95/10/21
.SH NAME
pmapp \- insert a verifiable signature into a
news article.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmapp
.I [newsgroups|user] [file] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pmapp
accepts an article from the named
.IR file
(or standard input if not specified),
computes a digital signature from the important
part of the contents, and inserts a special
header into the article which enables subsequent
checking of the signature. The amended article is
produced on standard output, suitable for
injection into the news system.
.LP
The signature is created using the defaults for
the user name (and optionally password) built
into the script when a newsgroup is specified. 
This is the most common case for a newsgroup
moderator who will use a customised version of
the script. These defaults can be overridden with
environment variables \f3PMUSER\fP and
\f3PMPASSWORD\fP.
.LP
In any case, whenever the
password is the empty string, a prompt is
written to the controlling terminal and a
password is read from it.
.LP
When a user is specified (by way of an email
address containing an "\fB@\fP") this is used to
select the signing user, and a password will be
requested.
.LP
When the signature is being generated for a
newsgroup, it is assumed that the newsgroup is
moderated and the invoking user is (one of) the
moderator(s).
The simple case is that there is only one
newsgroup specified; an Approved: line is added
as well as the X-Auth: line, and the
article is ready for posting.
.LP
\f2Pmapp\fP goes to some trouble to
handle the case of multiple moderated newsgroups
in the Newsgroups: line. The first, and probably
most important, case, is
when a moderator wants to cross-post a FAQ to
their own group, as well as news.answers (for
example). In this case their approval counts for
both groups, so they can insert the Approved:
header and post away. Presumably the other groups
are not under the contol of the PGP Moose Daemon.
The moderator can just go ahead and
put in the Approved: header, and save themself
and pmapp a lot of time. It will be passed right
through.
.LP
The other case is harder to get right. This is when
the article really is meant to be posted to two (or
more) unrelated moderated newsgroups. The approval
script checks whether there are any moderated
newsgroups left that don't have X-Auth:
headers for them. If there are none left, an Approved:
header is inserted and the article gets posted.
Otherwise, it issues a warning, and re-orders the
newsgroups header with a newsgroup which is moderated
but has no X-Auth:  line at the start.
When the article is posted, the news system will
forward it to the moderator of the (new) first
moderated group. If all moderators are sensible,
and check for moderated newsgroups in this fashion,
the mess should sort itself out and the last moderator
will go ahead and post it. A warning message to the
subsequent moderator NOT to change the article is
also inserted.
.\".SH FILES
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pmcheck (1),
.IR pmcanon (1)
for a description of the fields which go into the
signature calculation,
the PGP User's Manual.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Rose, RoSecure Software.
